Every person must choose how much truth he can stand.
Despair is the price one pays for self-awareness. Look deeply into life, and you'll always find despair.
Only the wounded healer can truly heal.
If we climb high enough, we will reach a height from which tragedy ceases to look tragic.
Some day soon, perhaps in forty years, there will be no one alive who has ever known me. That's when I will be truly dead - when I exist in no one's memory. I thought a lot about how someone very old is the last living individual to have known some person or cluster of people. When that person dies, the whole cluster dies, too, vanishes from the living memory. I wonder who that person will be for me. Whose death will make me truly dead?
It is wrong to bear children out of need, wrong to use a child to alleviate loneliness, wrong to provide purpose in life by reproducing another copy of oneself. It is wrong also to seek immortality by spewing one's germ into the future as though sperm contains your consciousness!
Life is a spark between two identical voids, the darkness before birth and the one after death.
I dream of a love that is more than two people craving to possess one another.
The spirit of a man is constructed out of his choices.
... sooner or later she had to give up the hope for a better past.
Love is not just a passion spark between two people; there is infinite difference between falling in love and standing in love. Rather, love is a way of being, a giving to, not a 'falling for; a mode of relating at large, not an act limited to a single person.
Life is a miserable thing. I have decided to spend my life thinking about it.
To love means to be actively concerned for the life and the growth of another.
A curious thought experiment. . . Nietzsche's message to us was to live life in such a way that we would be willing to repeat the same life eternally
What? 'Borderline patients play games'? That what you said? Ernest, you'll never be a real therapist if you think like that. That's exactly what I meant earlier when I talked about the dangers of diagnosis. There are borderlines and there are borderlines. Labels do violence to people. You can't treat the label; you have to treat the person behind the label. (17)
...the more unlived your life, the greater your death anxiety. The more you fail to experience your life fully, the more you will fear death.
One thing I feel clear about is that it's important not to let your life live you. Otherwise, you end up at forty feeling you haven't really lived. What have I learned? Perhaps to live now, so that at fifty I won't look back upon my forties with regret.
I should have become an I before I became a we.
If Epicurus were speaking to you at this moment, he would urge you to simplify life. Here's how he might put it if he were standing here today :  Lads, your needs are few, they are easily attained, and any necessary suffering can be easily tolerated. Don't complicate your life with such trivial goals as riches and fame: they are the enemy of ATARAXIA. Fame, for example, consist of the opinions of others and requires that we must live our life as other wish. To achieve and maintain fame, we must like what others like and shun whatever it is that they shun. Hence, a life of fame or a life in politics? Flee from it. And wealth? Avoid it! It is a trap. The more we acquire the more we crave, and the deeper our sadness when our yearning is not satisfied. Lads, listen to me: If you crave happiness, do not waste your life struggling for that which you really do not need.
Four givens are particularly relevant for psycho-therapy: the inevitability of death for each of us and for those we love; the freedom to make our lives as we will; our ultimate aloneness; and, finally, the absence of any obvious meaning or sense to life.
Live when you live! Death loses its terror if one dies when one has consummated one's life! If one does not live in the right time, then one can never die at the right time.
It is easier, far easier, to obey another than to command oneself.
The pain is there; when you close one door on it, it knocks to come in somewhere else...
Dissect your motives deeper! You will find that no one has ever done anything wholly for others. All actions are self-directed, all service is self-serving, all love self-loving.
To build children you must first be built yourself. Otherwise, you’ll seek children out of animal needs, or loneliness, or to patch the holes in yourself. Your task as a parent is to produce not another self, another Josef, but something higher. It’s to produce a creator.
It is an ironic habit of human beings to run faster when they have lost their way.
Many people suffer from the fear of finding oneself alone, and so they don't find themselves at all.
In order to be open to creativity, one must have the capacity for constructive use of solitude. One must overcome the fear of being alone.
The opposite of courage in our society is not cowardice, it's conformity.
Intimacy requires courage because risk is inescapable. We cannot know at the outset how the relationship will affect us. Like a chemical mixture, if one of us is changed, both of us will be. Will we grow in self-actualization, or will it destroy us? The one thing we can be certain of is that if we let ourselves fully into the relationship for good or evil, we will not come out unaffected.
Every human being must have a point at which he stands against the culture, where he says, this is me and the damned world can go to hell.
Finding the center of strength within ourselves is in the long run the best contribution we can make to our fellow men. ... One person with indigenous inner strength exercises a great calming effect on panic among people around him. This is what our society needs — not new ideas and inventions; important as these are, and not geniuses and supermen, but persons who can be, that is, persons who have a center of strength within themselves.
The relationship between commitment and doubt is by no means an antagonistic one. Commitment is healthiest when it is not without doubt, but in spite of doubt. (p. 21)
Hate is not the opposite of love; apathy is.
Human freedom involves our capacity to pause between the stimulus and response and, in that pause, to choose the one response toward which we wish to throw our weight. The capacity to create ourselves, based upon this freedom, is inseparable from consciousness or self-awareness. (p. 100)
A myth is a way of making sense in a senseless world. Myths are narrative patterns that give significance to our existence.
To love means to open ourselves to the negative as well as the positive - to grief, sorrow, and disappointment as well as to joy, fulfillment, and an intensity of consciousness we did not know was possible before
Recall how often in human history the saint and the rebel have be the same person. (p. 35)
Technology is the knack of so arranging the world that we do not experience it.
What if imagination and art are not frosting at all, but the fountainhead of human experience?
One must have at least a readiness to love the other person, broadly speaking, if one is to be able to understand him.
Dogmatism of all kinds--scientific, economic, moral, as well as political--are threatened by the creative freedom of the artist. This is necessarily and inevitably so. We cannot escape our anxiety over the fact that the artists together with creative persons of all sorts, are the possible destroyer of our nicely ordered systems.
One of the few blessings of living in an age of anxiety is that we are forced to become aware of ourselves.
Good art wounds as well as delights. It must, because our defenses against the truth are wound so tightly around us. But as art chips away at our defenses, it also opens us to healing potentialities that transcend intellectual games and ego-preserving strategies.
It is interesting to note how many of the great scientific discoveries begin as myths.
Depression is the inability to construct a future.
It is dangerous to know, but it is more dangerous not to know.
The human being cannot live in a condition of emptiness for very long: if he is not growing toward something, he does not merely stagnate; the pent-up potentialities turn into morbidity and despair, and eventually into destructive activities.
The poet, like the lover, is a menace on the assembly line.
Creative people, as I see them, are distinguished by the fact that they can live with anxiety, even though a high price may be paid in terms of insecurity, sensitivity, and defenselessness for the gift of the divine madness, to borrow the term used by the classical Greeks. They do not run away from non-being, but by encountering and wrestling with it, force it to produce being. They knock on silence for an answering music; they pursue meaninglessness until they can force it to mean.
The problem with having problems is that ‘someone’ always has it worse.
Just because you don’t understand it doesn’t mean it isn’t so.
One small crack does not mean that you are broken, it means that you were put to the test and you didn’t fall apart.
I cannot stand the words Get over it. All of us are under such pressure to put our problems in the past tense. Slow down. Don’t allow other to hurry your healing. It is a process, one that may take years, occasionally, even a lifetime – and that’s OK.
She is beautiful piece of broken pottery, put back together by her own hands. And a critical world judges her cracks while missing the beauty of how she made herself whole again.
Some days I am more wolf than woman, and I am still learning how to stop apologizing for my wild.
Out of all the things I have lost, I miss my mind the most. Mark Twain
Nobody can save you but yourself, and you’re worth saving. It’s a war not easily won,but if anything is worth winning then this is it. Charles Bukowski
Healing takes time and asking for help is a courageous step.
Be confused, it’s where you begin to learn new things. Be broken, it’s where you begin to heal. Be frustrated, it’s where you start to make more authentic decisions. Be sad, because if we are brave enough we can hear our heart’s wisdom through it. Be whatever you are right now. No more hiding. You are worthy, always.
Give yourself a break. Stop beating yourself up!. Everyone makes mistakes, has setbacks and failures. You don’t come with a book on how to get it right all the time. You will fail sometimes, not because you planned to, but simply because you’re human. Failure is a part of creating a great life.
Often it’s the deepest pain which empowers you to grow into your highest self.
She overcame everything that was meant to destroy her.
He who finds a new path is a pathfinder, even if the trail has to be found again by others; and he who walks far ahead of his contemporaries is a leader, even though centuries pass before he is recognized as such
Desires make slaves out of kings and patience makes kings out of slaves
Never have I dealt with anything more difficult than my own soul, which sometimes helps me and sometime opposes me.
The past resembles the future more than one drop of water resembles another
Two truths cannot contradict one another
When you see a person who has been given more than you in money and beauty, then look to those who have been given less.
Width of life is more important than length of life.
 Is it the fault of wine if a fool drinks it and goes stumbling into darkness?
Those who look for seashells will find seashells; those who open them will find pearls.
Dear friend,Your heart is a polished mirror. You must wipe it dean of the veil of dust that has gathered upon it, because it is destined to reflect the light of divine secrets.
Each of your breaths is a priceless jewel, since each of them is irreplaceable and once gone, can never be retrieved.